Since you're about to intall a Cydoor enabled application,
you must read and accept the following -

Cydoor Technologies Ltd. Software End User License Agreement

By clicking on the "Accept" button, you are consenting to be 
bound by and are becoming a party to this agreement. If you 
do not agree to all of the terms of this agreement, click 
the "Do not accept" button. 

1. Definitions:

(a) "Cydoor Software" means the software program covered by 
    this Agreement, and all related updates supplied by 
    Cydoor Technologies.

(b) "Cydoor Product" means the Cydoor Software and any 
    related documentation, models and multimedia content 
    (such as animation, sound and graphics), and all related 
    updates supplied by Cydoor Technologies Ltd (follows:
    "Cydoor").

Upon acceptance of this agreement, Cydoor Technologies grants 
to you a non-exclusive license to use the Software, provided 
that you agree to the following:

2. License Grant:

You may install the Software on a hard disk or other storage 
device; install and use the Software on a file server for use
on a network for the purposes of (i) permanent installation 
onto hard disks or other storage devices or (ii) use of the 
Software over such network; and make backup copies of the 
Software.

You may make and distribute unlimited copies of the Software, 
excluding copies for commercial distribution, as long as each 
copy that you make and/or distribute is subject to this 
Agreement, and the same copyright and other proprietary 
notices pertaining to this Software that appear in the 
Software. If you download the Software from the Internet or 
similar on-line source, you must include the Cydoor
copyright notice for the Software with any on-line 
distribution and on any media you distribute that includes 
the Software.

This License does not entitle you hard-copy documentation, 
support or telephone assistance. Cydoor reserves the right 
at any time not to release a commercial release of the 
Software or, if released, to alter prices, features, 
licensing terms, or other characteristics of the commercial 
release.

3. Restrictions:

You may not permit other individuals to use the Software 
except under the terms listed above.  You may not copy the 
Software other than as specified above.  You agree not to 
modify, adapt, translate, reverse engineer, decompile, 
disassemble or otherwise attempt to discover the source code 
of the Software (except and solely to the extent an 
applicable statute expressly and specifically prohibits such 
restrictions). You may not modify, rent, lease, resell for 
profit, distribute or create derivative works based upon the 
Cydoor Product or any part thereof.  You may not grant a 
security interest in, or otherwise transfer rights to the 
Software.  You may not remove any proprietary notices or 
labels on the Software. 
 
4. Disclaimer of Warranty:

The software is provided on an "as is" basis, without 
warranty of any kind from Cydoor, express or implied, 
including without limitation warranty of merchantability, 
free of defects, fitness for a particular purpose and 
non-infringement of third party rights. The entire risk as to 
the quality and performance of the software is borne by you. 
Should the software prove defective in any respect, you and 
not Cydoor or its suppliers assume the entire cost of any 
service and repair. 

This disclaimer of warranty constitutes an essential part of 
the agreement. No use of the software is authorized hereunder 
except under this disclaimer.

In no event will Cydoor be liable to you for consequential, 
incidental, special or exemplary damages arising out of a 
breach of this agreement or warranty or your use of the 
software, including but not limited to lost profits or loss 
of business, even if Cydoor has been apprised of the 
likelihood of such damages occurring.

Cydoor shall have no obligation to you with respect to any 
claim of infringement based upon your use of the software in 
combination, operation or otherwise with the data or 
materials not supplied by Cydoor.

5. Downloading Additional Software:

In the event that your computer lacks software necessary for 
the Software to operate, a message will automatically be sent 
by the Software to Cydoor that additional software is needed.
Cydoor will then send you the additional software required 
for operation of the Software.  By accepting this Agreement, 
you agree that the Software and any additional software 
needed will be downloaded into your computer.

6. Termination:

This Agreement and the license granted hereunder will 
terminate automatically if you fail to comply with the 
limitations described herein. Upon termination, you must 
destroy all copies of the Software and Documentation.

7. Privacy Act:

This Agreement is subject to the Israeli Privacy Act of 1981.
Cydoor shall neither attain nor use any of your identifying
characteristics. In addition, Cydoor will not obtain any 
personal information that could identify you including your
name, picture or voice in order to match said personal 
characteristics to the information in the registration form.
Nevertheless, by accepting this software, you hereby 
authorize Cydoor to use the information in your 
registration form when selecting advertisements for you. 
Cydoor will use the information in the registration form
provided by you solely for the purpose of selecting which
commercials may, in Cydoor opinion, interest you most.

By downloading the Cydoor Product, you are confirming your
acceptance of the Software and agreeing to be bound by the
terms of this Agreement.

8. General:

This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Israel. This Agreement contains the complete agreement 
between the parties with respect to the license granted 
hereunder and supercedes all prior or contemporaneous 
agreements or understandings, whether oral or written.
This Agreement may be amended only by a writing signed by an 
authorized officer of Cydoor.

This Agreement will not be governed by the United Nations
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods,
the application of which is expressly excluded.  You agree
that the Software will not be shipped, transferred or
exported into any country or used in any manner, directly or
indirectly, prohibited by the United States Export 
Administration Act or any other export laws, restrictions or
regulations.

If any provision of this Agreement is held to be void and 
unenforceable, it will not affect the validity of the balance
of the Agreement.  Such provision shall be reformed only to
the extent necessary to make it enforceable. This Agreement 
shall be governed by Israeli law, excluding conflict of law 
provisions (except to the extent applicable law, if any, 
provides otherwise).

Manufacturer: 
	Cydoor Technologies, 22 Maskit St Hertzelia, Israel.
	http://www.cydoor.com
										
Your acceptance of the foregoing agreement was indicated 
during installation.

